We are now coming to our
expansion of that visual dom.
We did just see, didn't we?
The ability we have now with
the fact that our data is the only
source of determination of
what shows up on the screen.
The view via the DOM in C++,
the data in JavaScript is the only cause,
the only input of that via our
description of it through this create-v
DOM as Alexa shared with us.
And then that was converted into actual
DOM elements, and then they were
appended using replace-children
to the body and showed up.
That visual Dom,
we can now make more flexible,
we can now enable ourselves to
create reusable pieces of it.
We can create reusable parts to it.
And that's gonna give us
the ability to compose,
to join up little pieces of UI user
interface, that is the combination
of content with the back and
forth between our user action and
the underlying data, and then display
it again in our view, that combo.
And we're gonna move those little
units around to build out entire
applications and that's where we go now.
I starts with our list.
There's our list we recognize there.
We've got our input, our name,
our handle function.
We've got our div, our hello, okay?
Lists are central to UI development.
We have a list of two arrays
with their element details.
In reality,
these lists are gonna be 49 long.
49 video elements in a Zoom meeting,
100 tweets on a Twitter timeline.
Yeah, which we already had someone
hilariously say in the chat.
My tweets were less impressive
than a wipe-down on the board.
This feels very rude, but very nice.
We need tools for dealing with lists.
To apply code functionality to each
element, it's gonna be here to take
the details of each element and
convert them into an actual DOM element.
We saw last time to the chagrin of,
let's try to use that word correctly,
I don't know, I might have used it
wrongly, to the chagrin of Ian.
That we were marking out
here individually we wanted
to access vDOM 0 and vDOM 1 manually.
What if I have three elements in that DOM,
in my virtual DOM, my jobs DOM?
What if I have 10?
What if I have 50?
And what if I wanna move them
around in different order?
Well, ain't gonna work here.
So we're gonna try and generalize
this by instead of manually selecting
element zero and one from our virtual
DOM in our update DOM method,
function, sorry, the converter we
are going to map over that list of
elements that comes out
of running create V DOM.
Currently, he's got two elements.
We're gonna map over it,
that is to say we're going to loop and
hit each element with
the convert function.
Our map function, if you've been to a
higher-order functions hard parts, you'll
recognize it, our map function allows
us to hit with a function pass to it.
We'll see down here it's gonna
be the function convert to hit
each element of our vDOM,
our visual DOM and JavaScript and
apply one by one our convert
function to each element.
And then to collect that list of
converted elements in a array called LM.
Great, but
I replaced children is going to expect
not a list of linked access
objects of real DOM elements,
it expects individual arguments.
So we're gonna introduce our lovely spread
operator that's gonna spread out our
list into individual arguments chat's
gonna work with our Replace children's
design where it expects
individual elements, not a list.
So here we go.
Here we have to apply the map function and
to convert an array of
elements to individual inputs
to pass through a function.
Our functions that don't take arrays,
we're gonna use a spread syntax that
spreads out a list into
individual arguments.
So we can see it here.
We have our virtual DOM, our visual DOM,
our JavaScript representation of
what's gonna show up on the page.
Obviously, we're not doing
this in full with this code.
We're having to define name.
We have our handle function in there.
We then have our convert function
that will take in one of those
elements in the vDOM and the next one,
one by one by using map.
So in line 15, we are calling on that
vDOM, which is our array of sub-arrays,
we're calling map on it and
passing it the function convert,
which is going to inside of map,
a built-in JavaScript method,
hit each element of vDOM
with the convert function.
And that convert function will take in
as its input first vDOM position zero.
Then it'll run all over again
with vDOM position one and
if there were vDOM position two,
it would hit that one.
And the output of each of those
will be stored into, here we go,
I've got my little comments here.
Convert runs vDOM 0 push
to a new LMS array.
Convert vDOM 1 push to a new LMS array.
And unfortunately, he's got a list
replaced children's what would that so
we're gonna spread out elements
into individual arguments.
Just for people who are not aware of map,
mapping over vDOM is spreading
resulting right now.
Adding new elements doesn't require
any new code, that's useful.
We can add new elements to this
vDOM is gonna require no new code.
We're just going to map is flexible
to the number of input elements.
The map call will handle many
elements in the vDOM as there are.
To add our array of DOM elements, we need
to convert them to individual arguments.
Spread syntax allows an iterable such as
an array expression with string to be
expanded.
To work with the append method,
which can't handle arrays.
Can I just say I definitely copied that?
Spread Synex allows
an iterable such as an array.
As I read that, I was like,
I definitely did not write that,
I copied that off the Internet somewhere.
All right, okay, it makes sense, right?
Spread allows something that can be
iterated over like a list to be spread out
as an array expression or
string to be expanded into individual
inputs to be passed to a, in this case,
append or replace children
methods that can't handle arrays.